---
layout: post
math: true
title: Future stuff - and preplanning
category: Devoted_Librarian
---

Well, quite a long time since I have to write it down like this. Truth to be told, I forgot where is the small notebook I used to carry around pretty much every time stepping out of the house. That would be nice if it found again, not to be missing yet.

Well, time is changing. The course of history does not wait, and so it sweeps anyone who is not ready to grasp any chance to come by. So do I, have to, change to fit the current system. Come to the realization of learning that the current country in living is not sufficient, and having to find another one for new sources of inspiration, as belonging in there as there are opportunities, sufficient or not, is not new. Rather, I came in term with it pretty fast in the past. Finding a way out, to another place, to the dream land once called the free land, in the land where talents are not missed, because they have so much of them that they can fit them all in. That is exceedingly hard. If I haven't tried, though, perhaps I will never know how hard it is to do such things. And it will never become anything, forgoing the failure I had. Even then, I might have to keep trying on it, because I have no choice. 

With that said, it is not just for that only reason that I rush and craves for a chance to leave the land where I was born. But it is also because of the personal dream that I have. An obsession, that is. Everyone has dream. Many dreams than not. But there is a dream, my own interest, the ideas, the purpose to invent and create a construct for *artificial intelligence* - mind you, the actual *intelligence*, not the crackpot on r/singularity - and to find a place where my obsession, my research and my dream, have values not interdicted, even if it far-fetched, a bullet shot from a thousand miles. I still have to do it, because I really want to. Curious, did I just justify my obsession with the same line of thought and example of a Nobel laucrate (Oh dear, please don't)?

___

Anyway, for now, the plan is pretty much setup as it is. The road is still up and long ahead of time. And by then, at the first end checkpoint of the road, I have to get something established there already, worthy of ringing a name by. That's enough of the unwarranted prestige left. 

For the quantum optics lab, we just started a documentation wiki-like page on our potential research direction, and anything worth noting down but none is not lazy enough to gather by themselves. Granted, this is far messier than having a private service, but when everyone is charging for more than $40 a month - yeah, I don't get it. Our research focus, as always, retains on *artificial intelligence* application, on the topic of applications of *Raman spectroscopy*. For now, medical has been slashed - we are none the wiser in that area, and it is a pain in the bloody bampot to stay steadfast jumping the bandwagon with that one. For now, we are thinking of doing something with material science. Well, guess that need a list of criterias on its own. Though, to be fair, under that preset, Raman spectroscopy is pretty much limited, especially considering that a system of Raman spectroscopy requires a little bit over $4000 even with a DIY system (yeah I know, I get that too). So, perhaps we should try combining them both - using the non-destructive property of Raman scattering to focus on structure analysis, for example, crystal lattice composition and structure - while also on the other hand - have a destructive system waiting in line to utilize that kind of information from the Raman scattering spectrometer. A two-in-one system, which also aligns pretty well with the AI focus. Seems nice. Hopefully this is accepted of a proposal. 

On the side of the theoretical physics lab, we just got assigned solving the *half parabolic, asymmetric, non-additive* quantum well for a given system of low-dimensional ($2$-d in this case, it is quantum well, and not quantum wire), under specification of finite hole for supperlattice. Well, hard to say but, pretty much a hard assignment given that the name of the subject that you are tasked with is one heck of a long giraffe of a name to even cite it for. I guess it is also establishing the foundation on quantum mechanical knowledge to solving this kind of problem is not so trivial. Especially when you are also tasked with solving the time-dependent case of the Schrödinger's equation in that case. Wouldn't mind, but, well, gotta do something about it. Not sure how to feel about that quantization of a pain, but sure enough it is mysterious. 

Otherwise, there is ASC, 2025. Or this year, more specifically this summer. Hopefully to be accepted. Otherwise, it will be a real miss of the chance to *meet* others that are interested in physics and AI others than those who only study for grade. For the passign also aligns with the same light (I am an optical physicist, okay?). Well, can't really write that down in a resume, no?

And yes, there is also the paper I was working on about *statistical learning theory* and overall the theoretic-interpretation of machine learning - with the little sweet phenomena called *double descent* as the cherry on top. Oh, and don't forget the GNN. That is going to be releaseed this year's August, so I have plenty time to test for my hypothesis. 

Still, I haven't forgotten about the article on Raman spectroscopy I wrote a while back. Well, definitely will go back if I have time. 

___

Other than that. See you guys around (if there's any) later on. Bring some snacks next time. 