---
title: A new beginning
tags: Devoting_Librarian 
layout: post
math: true
---
LK-99 just got released. Apparently, it is confirmed to be not a diamagnetic alloy, but rather as its original paper claimed, a superconductor of ambient temperature. Well, that's a good thing. 
### QOTD (Question of the day)

- Communism vs Socialism, what the definite difference? In 3 different scope, where the lines draw, and whether its political or economical ideology?
- If I ever design a space station, what will I need to do? Figuring out everything (as people say, reinventing the wheel) from the scratch, what will take place in the design? 
- How do we produce, or harvest water from Earth? Specifically, the whole chain of logistic/production? What is the rate of production? Challenge level during extraction? What is the efficiency, volume, variants, and availability? (PS: This question come from today's occurrence, I lost water supply. That sucks, I know)
- Okay, the computer paradigm. How everything works? Just that.
___
### TOTD (Thought of the day)

- Human is kind of stupid from the perspective of Yuval Noah Harari. In his book, he, quoted, said that human are responsible for a lot of genocides on the environment, led to a variety of different extinctions species. Couple this with a lot of claims and speculations in the book as his thoughts and bias, it is quite clear to say he regard what we do is a catastrophe. While it's has truth inside, that we are the factor that led to the extinction of several species, that's life. Genocide is wrong, in essence of its definition: We do not kill for fun. We kill species because of survival. Why going for a different source of food which is hard to get while you have this easy-to-kill, easy-to-eat source right here? Especially during the time where the term "Agricultural Revolution" was not even existed, not to say relevant. Secondly, we are doing the cycle of life. Something must go, for the survival and evolution of another. I am quite a Darwinian follower, but the truth is that the nature itself has rules to follow, and we are the same. Defying the rule as we are trying to do is good for us, but the sociological structure, and, the way logic works, should not be apprehended and ignored. For the sake of forgiving and being "good" to animals, we are actively trying to justify another species, under our scope. It's more of a superior complex than what it means to be animal loves most of the time, not to say there are none, but blind supporter of animal will be that case, ideally, most of the time. 
___
The concept of industrialization is being... rather problematic. For now, I think it is degrading rather than advancing some aspects of life and culture as a society and human. Take a look of art and architectures around the world, simplification to the extreme seems to be the case. With less than average attention spans, it seems like symbols, designs and overall artistic value are being downgraded to just being simple to please the brain. Minimalism has been always the case throughout the history, but never has it been so extreme as it is today.  My problem with fanatic minimalism nowadays are more than just being a trend - it is rather the oversimplification of things, dwindled down the details of everything, without regards to some of the field and situation it is in. The overused nature right now is the source of problem - especially when it changed industrialism. Industrialization is the mass-production of products - commodities and needs of society. It changed the scope of people having access to one particular or another commodities of different purposes. In one way or another, it increases the properties available of the civilization, increasing wealth, some what not its fault for all the mis-management of resource, because, it is not designed for that, and become more affordable, achievable. It makes an artistic painting with colourful portrait to be easy to make and easy to have, which benefits both the artist and the buyer. Factories pumps out various different products, which then will eventually benefits its own workers' life. Overall, industrialization is good indeed, but the consequences to it is not always that good. But we are not talking about that here. 

Aside from the consequences, wrongly approach to a problem is worse than that, and that is where minimalism placed itself. Rather than making a complex machine approachable and affordable, we are minimalizing it to be less human as possible. We dare to use a cup of tea with no texture, plainly designed, has no specific value whatsoever, because it just serves the purpose. Sometimes it is even more contradicting, wanting things to be more complicate than it already is, but want to dwindle down the satisfaction of the products that they deemed to be too "unmodern". It made architectures looks like a joke: Building blocks, depressing but works, just like tents and dirt houses (which they do not want to live in). Super-minimal house design, simplify everything until you need something and, you do not have it. Boring, depressing houses with little to no texture but you still try to live with it. And most of them all, it seems like artistic value are being overvalued, reserved for the rich, a symbol now for the rich to claims as superior, rather than the purpose of industrialization - to make things more affordable while remaining the value. Oh, and well, guess those contemporary art (the one with a banana strapped onto a wall) is not a fraud then. Good grief.
___
